ADLINK DAQ USB 7250
###################

8x relays (digital output)
--------------------------

* Relay 0-3 C form
* Relay 4-7 A form

8x digital input
----------------

Each digital input is connected via opto-isolators to CPLD.
It has to be at least 5V between DIxL and DIxH.

The digital inputs can be filtered (or debounced). Adlink
calls this "digital filter" with minimum pulse width.

The pulse width can be only set for all inputs at the same time.
However if the digital input runs through the filter can be specific for each input indivitual.

2x counter
----------

The counter input is similiar to the digital input. It has also a digital filter.
But the digital filter pulse width is configurable for each counter indepentend.

The counters count every edge as well figuring out the clock period.
The clock period is counting in 1/48Mhz steps.

Architecture
------------

The 7250 is based on a Cypress-8051 USB and an Altera-CPLD.

.. code::

               counter & digital inputs
                          |
   digital output/relay   |
             |            |
             |            |
  -- USB2 --- Cypress --- CPLD

All digital output are connected to the Cypress while counter and digital inputs and counters are connected to the CPLD.

supported features
------------------

* 8-CH relay output
* 8-CH digital inputs
* 2-CH counter

+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
| features                           | supported | tested |
+====================================+===========+========+
| get device id                      | X         | X      |
+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
| get/set relay state                | X         | X      |
+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
| get/set relay initial state        | X         | X      |
+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
| get digital input state            | X         | X      |
+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
| set digital input min pulse width  | X         |        |
+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
| enable digital input filter        | X         |        |
+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
| digital input COS/IRQ              | X         |        |
+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
| read COS changes                   |           |        |
+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
| get counter frequency              | X         | X      |
+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
| get counter edge                   | X         | X      |
+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
| set counter min pulse width        | X         |        |
+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
| enable counter filter              | X         |        |
+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
| set counter polarity               | X         |        |
+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
| reset counter frequency            | X         |        |
+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+
| reset counter counter              | X         |        |
+------------------------------------+-----------+--------+

get device id
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Get rotary switch position.

get/set relay initial state
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Get/Set the relay initial state. The initial state
is the state when the device plugged in. This have to be written
into a flash.

set digital input min pulse width
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The digital input minimum pulse width is part of digital filtering.
It defines how long the input must remain on a signal level to be sampled.
It's debouncing.

enable digital input filter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Enable the digital input filter on a specific input. Just setting the digital input min pulse does not enable
it. Each input can be set to be filtered or not.

digital input COS/IRQ
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Supports triggering a IRQ when the input level changes.

read COS
^^^^^^^^

The CPLD seems to count how often an COS happend. The windows software have a button on "Check COS w/ Timer".
It's unknown how this works.

get counter frequency
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Retrieve the frequency from the counter. Calculated in 1/48Mhz steps.

get counter edge
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Retrieve the edge counter from the counter. The polarity of the counter (counting high or low edges)
can be set individual.

set counter min pulse width
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Same as digital input minimum pulse width, except
each counter can have different pulse width settings.

set counter polarity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Set the counter polarity. If it counts high or low polarity edges.

reset counter frequency
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reset the frequency counter to starts counting again.

reset counter counter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reset the edge counter. So it starts again at 0.

Reset the frequency counter to starts counting again.
